So I'm back in our application on the auth screen,
this screen isn't doing much right now
so I want to work on it.
I want to make sure that when we press switch to login, we don't just see this alert here but we
actually switch between three and two inputs so that we only see a confirm password field if we are
in sign up mode
and I want to make sure that the submit button here does something else than
just continuing.
Well for now it will continue because we'll add authentication later but I also want to make sure that
we can't press it, that it's disabled if the user didn't enter anything valid into these fields and therefore,
I also want to implement my own validation.
Now as you might know, react the react
library doesn't ship with any built-in form input validation,
so we'll have to add all this logic on our own and we will do so of course.
So let's go to this auth screen here
and let's now make sure that we connect all the inputs we have in our jsx code to some object we can manage
in this state, so that we can for one bind the value to set up two-way binding so that we always store
what the user entered in our state, that we also check the validity and control the validity of each
input
and that we also can then use this information to change the styling of the inputs and to disable the
button if the inputs are invalid. For all of that,
I'll start by going up to my state here in the auth screen and here I now not only want to control the
view mode but also my controls so the inputs basically.
And one important note here, of course we could use redux for that but the state we're handling here
is really just internal state of this specific screen of this component
hence I don't see the big advantage of putting all of that into redux because no other place in our
application cares about this state. Therefore I'll here add a controls object and here I will create a couple
of key value pairs where the key is some identifier of the different controls like email but also like password
and confirm password,
these are the three inputs we'll have on this page
and this pattern of course can be used with any type of input and any amount of inputs.
Now these keys like this aren't that helpful,
each key instead should hold a javascript object as a value in which we store its current value and the
validity
so I'll add a value property to the email object here and set it to an empty string initially, I'll then add the valid
property and set it to false initially,
so that by default every input is false.
I'll then add another key which I'll name validation rules
and this could be a javascript object where we might have a key like isEmail and set this to true
and of course we'll have to write a logic for checking this, so this is just some general approach I want
to use to have a reusable way of creating inputs. I'll then copy this and assign it to password, there
I'll leave the values as they are
but I will actually set this here to let's say minLength 6 to enforce a password which has at least
six characters
and of course you can always fine tune this.
Now I'll do the same for confirm password, there.
I will assign an equalTo validator and set this equal to a string named password
and this string here of course has to match this string of the other control to which I want to compare
it. And just as I said, adding all these rules like this won't do anything, react doesn't care about that,
there is no built-in validation.
We'll have to write our own logic
but before we do this, let's actually connect our controls here to our jsx code.
Now you could go even so far as dynamically rendering out all your inputs in your jsx code
but here I will leave them as I have them here, so manually add it to jsx but I want to connect them
to their respective controls,
so to the data in my state, like here for the default input.
Now we could also outsource the placeholder text into our state to then also load this dynamically
but since I hardcode my input into jsx anyways, I can also leave it as it is.
Nonetheless my goal now is to bind the value and the onChange text event,
now keep in mind the default input is our custom component
but if we have a look at it here in our components folder, there default input actually distributes all the
props we passed to it onto the text input, so we can bind any property the text input knows on our default
input.
Therefore what I can do is I can set value equal to and now this is this state controls email and there,
value.
Now if this was too fast, let's see what I'm accessing here,
I'm accessing this state and then controls email value.
Now if we have a look at our state, we see controls is this object, in there we get the email key and
now I'm interested in the value of that.
Now for this to update, we also need to add some logic to well, update it if we type, for this I'll add the on
change text handler here
and I want to bind it to some method which will update my state. For this,
I'll add a new method, maybe update input state, something like this,
I'll get the value here but that's actually not enough for me,
I want to get the key and the value.
The key is basically the identifiers I have in my state controls object,
so email, password and so on
and then here the goal is to call this set state of course and set the state on controls but not the
entire controls object should be overwritten but only of the key we're updating.
Therefore this set state syntax
isn't the one we want to use,
we want to use the one where we get the previous state passed into a function where we then return
an object that should be merged with the state
and in that object, we now want to update the controls object but there, I'll first of all copy all the
previous state, so that when we update email, we don't lose password and confirm password and in here, I then
update the key we got here so key will be e-mail, password and so on
and with that, we can dynamically access the respective property and there, set the value to the value
we get as an argument,
this one.
Now keep in mind that inside here, we also have our validation rules and we have the valid property,
so to not lose that, what I'll actually do I'll also distribute all my previous state controls information
for that key, so for that control we're accessing.
And with that, I'm then openly overriding the value and I'm taking the old validation rules and the old
valid property, we'll add validation as one of the next steps.
So now we got this versatile update input state method here which we should be able to use to update
well the state,
so for this let's go back and let's hook up onChange text handler, I'll actually hook it up to an arrow
function where I then want to execute this
update input state, I will get the value here,
this is the default events data on changed text emits, whoops, it's on change text not on change text handler,
so onchange text will give us the value by default,
we accept that here and then we execute this so that we can pass on the value but we also want to pass
on the key which is email for this specific input here,
so that key is then received by update input state and we use the key well to update it in our state
controls object, in this case the email. Now with this,
let's save this and let's go back to our running application and there, let's enter something into the
email form and or input
and that looks fine,
we don't get any error messages so two-way binding also seems to work since we can see the output.
With that, let's quickly connect the password and confirm password fields before we then in the next steps
fine tune everything
and of course also add validation.
So let's work on the password, there
I'm also going to distribute these values into multiple lines,
I then want to bind the value and for the value here, I'll get this state controls password value and
onchange text will be connected to an arrow function here too just as we use it for email, I'll get the
value there and then I'll call update input state, execute it,
the key so the identifier will be password and I pass on the value.
And finally let me do the same
and therefore I'll copy that, let me do the same for confirm password.
There I'll also
insert this but of course on the state, I access confirm password
and I'll also pass this here, confirm password as a key, now here I'm also missing a closing curly brace.
So if we add this, save this and reload our application, we can type into all of these fields I wanted to say
but we actually get an error when I try to enter something in the password field, so we enter this state
controls password value and we get an error that it can't read property value of undefined.
So let's have a look,
we do have this state controls password value,
this looks all right and I could find the error here where I distribute previous state into controls,
I should of course distribute previous state controls
otherwise I essentially remove the property, so the controls
I'm not editing.
So if we now save this and we reload, now we should be able to enter something into all of these fields.
So that's now connected,
it's of course not super useful, we haven't gotten any validation yet.
Let's add validation in the next lecture.